("The Call of Spring")
♪ Now the mist has cleared
♪ As day is dawning
♪ It's all becoming
clearer to me ♪
♪ The seasons change
♪ As I change with them
♪ And the call of spring
♪ Gives me strength
♪ And courage to know
♪ I will make it through
♪ Whatever life throws at me
♪ Summer's sweet scent
♪ Autumn's whisper
♪ Winter stings with the cold
♪ When trouble comes
rolling in like thunder ♪
♪ Tears may fall
♪ Fear may call
♪ But with spring in my heart
♪ When seasons change
♪ I'll change with them
♪ And I know I can
weather the storm ♪
- [Narrator] Angered by Mattis'
cruel kidnapping of Birk,
Ronja leapt over Hell's
Gap to offer herself
as a hostage to
the Borka Robbers.
"I have no child," said Mattis,
stunned by her act of defiance.
His words filled Ronja
with an unbearable sorrow.
She simply didn't
know what to do.
For three days, Ronja went into
the forest looking for Birk,
but there was no sign of him.
She wondered, had Borka
and Undis locked him in,
so he couldn't run off to
the woods to be with her?
It was frustrating, looking,
waiting, yet knowing nothing.
- It's been four days already!
Hmph!
Will you come and eat
some breakfast Mattis?
Stop sulking!
Everyone is sitting at that
table, waiting for you!
Do you understand?
(grunting)
Well, have you had enough?
Say thanks.
- What a hearty meal.
- It sure was.
- Great dinner.
- Thanks very much.
- All right, let's go.
- Wait, hey!
Hey, don't go.
I'll get them.
- Even the horses are
itching to go out and run.
- Still no robbing today.
- Not when Chief's
in that state.
- Even though it's spring,
when we've got the most
amount of travellers
passing through the woods.
- All that treasure
just slipping by.
- What a waste.
- Well, you must be the band
they call the Mattis Robbers,
thought you were the
mightiest clan in the woods?
- We are.
But at the moment,
there's nothing we can do.
- Carry on this way, we'll
all go mad, won't we?
This is worse than last winter.
- It's precisely times like now,
when something
happens to the chief,
we must pull together
and hold down the fort.
- Well, sure.
- I suppose you're right.
- He's got his son back,
so now who knows
what Borka will try.
We must post more
guards than usual.
Lill-Klippen, Tjegge
to Wolf's Neck!
And inspect the traps!
Fjosok, Sturkas, Jutis, Labbas.
You are on rooftop duty!
- [Group] Yes!
- Tjorm, Pelje, Knotas.
You men are to gather
all the weapons we have.
- [Tjorm] I'm on it.
- [Pelje] Right away.
- [Knotas] Yes.
- Birk!
Birk!
Hello?
I remember when I was happy
to be on my own in the forest.
How long ago.
It all seems like
another lifetime away.
Without Birk to share it
with there's no joy left.
(whistling)
Birk!
Hey, Birk!
- I'm finished with them.
And I'm moving into the forest.
I simply can't live in
Borka's Keep any longer.
- Why not?
- I can't stand it,
I can't put up with
their cruel words
and their nagging forever.
Three days are enough!
- Of course.
You're right!
Mattis remaining
silent is far worse
than any of his harsh words.
I can't stand it either.
Where are we going?
- Huh?
- I'm coming with you!
I'm going to move into
the forest as well!
That's what I'll do!
Yes, that's right,
I'll leave the fort!
- Remember I was born out here.
- So?
- So I'm used to
living in a cave.
- So what?
- You really think
you can handle it?
- If it's with you, I can!
I know we can live anywhere!
You know the Bear's Cave?
Oh, we'd have a great time!
- Ronja, watch where you step.
Be careful you don't fall off.
- You're always
worrying, Mattis.
I promise you I won't fall.
- Here we are.
(gasping)
- Wow!
- I remember as a young boy,
I spent many summers here.
- Wow.
- According to Noddle-Pete,
bears used to live here,
so they'd hibernate
over the winter.
And that's why I called
it the "Bear's Cave."
- I'll come to the
Bear's Cave late tonight.
Will you be there then?
- [Birk] Of course.
I've nowhere else to go.
I'll be there waiting for you.
♪ I know you're prowling
♪ Out from the forest
♪ To come steal from me
♪ I know your pain
♪ Cubs hungry again
♪ But you won't
take mine from me ♪
♪ Wild wolf please
♪ Why don't you feed
♪ On the scraps
that I leave you ♪
♪ I promise this
♪ If my child you kiss
♪ That's the last
thing you'll do ♪
- My darling Lovis.
Perhaps we will see
each other again.
Or this is goodbye.
But, Lovis, I am no
longer Mattis's daughter.
That's why, I have to go.
Forgive me.
(snoring)
- Hm?
- You see, I really
have no choice.
Be well, Joen.
- Hey, wake up!
- Ow, what's happened?
Ronja!
- In the name of
all wild harpies!
Hey!
Where are you off to in
the middle of the night?
- Can't you see?
I'm off.
I'm going to live in the woods.
One favor, tell Lovis for me.
- Why don't you
tell her yourself?
- Oh well, because if I tell
her, she wouldn't let me go.
And I don't want her
to try and stop me.
- Ronja!
What do you think
your father will do?
- Father.
I'm sorry but I have no father.
Give everyone my love.
Especially Noddle-Pete.
And remember me, perhaps,
when you're all dancing
and singing your songs.
- I think this is the end
of dancing in Mattis' Fort.
- And who could
possibly sing now?
Ronja!
You can't go!
- Be sure to tell Lovis
that she must not fret,
or worry too much about me.
I'll be in the woods if
she wants to find me.
- And what do we
tell your father?
- Nothing.
How strange that I'm happy
and yet I feel so very sad.
Oh.
- The Murktrolls dance
only on moonlit nights.
They sing their spring
song as they dance.
- Spring song?
- Old man.
Old man!
You dance like an earthworm
roasting on a fire.
Look at that,
fires are splendid.
If nothing else,
Ronja, you remember...
- Huh?
- [Mattis] If nothing
else, Ronja, you remember-
- Where there is a home,
there is a warm fire.
And where there is a warm
fire there can also be a home
- I've been waiting here
a long time for you.
Now eat.
Then, sister mine, you can
sing the Wolf Song for us.
- [Narrator] Next time on
Ronja, the Robber's Daughter.
"Something in the Cave".
Don't miss it.
(upbeat music)